# cs_467_reticulum

Reticulum Employee Recognition Instructions
Grant Hatchimonji, hatchimg
Jon Hutter, hutterj
Ryan Ruiz, ruizry
 
Instructions
We will divide this set of instructions, intended to guide you through all of the functionality our program has to offer, into three sections: login, regular user interface, and admin user interface. The live deployment of the project is hosted at http://sample-env.ika8zhqiie.us-west-2.elasticbeanstalk.com/



Login
When you first navigate to the site, they are greeted with a sign in/sign up screen. Click the sign in/sign up button. This brings you to a page where you can choose to either sign in with an existing account, or create a new account. Each option produces its own dropdown form; the former with fields for your email (which serves as your username) and password -- along with a login button -- and the latter with fields for your email, password, first name, last name, and region (these are used for employee profile information), as well as a register button. The region field is a dropdown menu that is populated with the available regions in which employees can be located. After either filling out the respective fields for logging in or registering, hitting the “Log In” or “Register” buttons will proceed to take you to your homepage of the regular user interface, which you will read more about below. To sign into the user interface using sample login information, enter ”bob@regular.com” and ”another”. To sign into the admin interface using sample login information, enter “ruizry@oregonstate.edu” and “password”.
 
Finally, back on the login screen, there is a third button for resetting your password in the event that you have a profile but cannot remember your password. Clicking this button takes you to a new page with a field in which you can enter the email address with which your profile is associated. Enter your email, click the submit button, and you are met with a new page informing you that an email has been sent to that address with a new, randomly generated temporary password, along with a button to go back to the home (sign in/sign up) page. Within a few seconds, you will receive an email from “reticulumcs467” (please check spam if you don’t see it!) saying that a change has been made to your Reticulum account. The email contains a password that you can then copy and paste into the password field while logging in, thus granting you access to the site.



Regular User Interface
This is interface is for “regular” users, i.e. employees. All newly created profiles will navigate to here. From here, you can see an image of your signature (if you have just registered, you will not see one yet; you will be able to upload a link to it from the edit profile page, which we will get to soon), as well as your full name and email. You can then choose to navigate to any of the other pages/functions available in this interface, links to which are all located in the nav bar (along with a greeting!) along the top of the screen: Home (where you currently are), Create New Award, Manage Awards, Edit Profile, and Log Out.
 
On the Create New Award page, you will be asked to fill out three fields to issue a new award: the recipient, the award type (Employee of the Week or Employee of the Month), and the date/time it was issued. The recipient and award type can both be selected via dropdown menus, which populate with all of the available employees (regular users) and award types that are stored in the database, respectively. Once you have made selections from the dropdown menus and entered a date/time, hit “Submit,” at which point the award will be created and you will be taken back to the home screen.
 
On the Manage Awards screen, you will be able to see all of the awards that have been issued, including the one you have just created. Each award has its own set of information, including its Award Number, the recipient, the award type, the date/time it was issued, and the ID number of the employee who issued it. Along with each of these award entries in the list, there are two buttons: Email Award and Delete. Delete is very straightforward; simply hit the button to delete the award and it will both be deleted from the database and the page itself (dynamically, so no need for a reload). To email the award, hit the button and wait until you are presented with a screen saying that the award has been emailed successfully. At this point, you can hit the provided button to return to your home screen. Meanwhile, the email address associated with the employee to whom the award was given/just sent will receive a message containing a PDF file of the award. This file contains information including the recipient’s name, award type, date and time it was issued, the issuer’s name, and -- if there is one on file -- the signature of the employee who issued it.
 
Finally, there is the Edit Profile page. Here, you can see your current profile information, which includes your first name, last name, and an image of your signature if you have uploaded an image link. If you do not have one or if you are a newly-registered user, you will see a default “No Signature Uploaded” image. Below the current profile information, there is a form containing fields for entering a new first name, last name, and signature image URL. The fields are prepopulated with any current existing information, but they are fully editable and can be filled with any changes you’d like to make to your profile. For the signature image, just make sure it is a URL to an image that is hosted live somewhere on the internet (for example, if you do a Google image search, click on a result, and then click on “View Image”, the URL of the page you are brought to is something you could use). After entering whatever information you’d like to update your profile, hit submit, at which point you will be brought back to your home page where all of your changes will be immediately reflected.
 
This just leaves the Log Out link on the nav bar, which is self explanatory. Click this link to log out of your current profile/session and be brought back to the sign in/sign up screen.



Admin User Interface
This is our “backend” interface for admin users. Users cannot create admin profiles; they can only be generated directly in our database or by switching the isAdmin property of an existing regular user to 1 (again, an operation that is only possible when done in the database itself). As such, in order to log in, you can either do one of the aforementioned operations to create a usable admin profile, or use one of our existing ones. Ryan’s, for instance, is ruizry@oregonstate.edu and the password is “password” without the quotes.
 
Once logged in, you will be brought to a nearly identical homepage to that of the regular users, with the only exception being that there is a default image for the signature since admin users don’t need signatures (they’re only used for issuing awards, which admins cannot do) and therefore cannot upload a URL for one. From here, you can navigate to the other pages/functions using the same navigation bar located at the top of the display: Home (your current location), Add/Edit/Delete Regular Users, Add/Edit/Delete Admin Users, Perform BI Operations, and Log Out.
 
On the Add/Edit/Delete Regular Users page, you will be presented with a table that is populated with the information of all of the regular users that are currently stored in the database. This includes their region, an image of their signature (if they have an image URL on file; if not, it displays an empty box stating “No image URL on file”), last name, first name, the email associated with their account, the date/time their profile was created, and two buttons for each row: edit user and delete user. Delete user is straightforward: simply click the button and the user will be deleted from the database and immediately removed from the table (this occurs dynamically using AJAX calls, so the page will not need to reload in order to reflect the results of this operation). The editable fields, meanwhile, include the region, last name, first name, and email of the user (signature is not editable since this feature is available on the user’s edit profile page, and date/time created isn’t editable to retain accurate data). Simply click directly into the field(s) you want to edit, make your changes, and then click the “Edit User” button of the row you just modified. The changes to that user will then be saved, with their information in the database edited and their up-to-date information showing on the page. Below the table of users is a form that allows you to create a new regular user; just enter the user’s first name, last name, region (selected from the pulldown menu of available regions), email address (username), password, and a URL to an image of their signature (this is optional). Press submit to create the new user, at which point you will be brought back to your home screen.
 
Next is the Add/Edit/Delete Admin Users page, which is nearly identical to the previous page. The only exception is that the table is slightly different since admins do not have regions or signatures, which also means that the only editable fields are first name, last name, and email address. Otherwise, all features work the same way, with the form to add admin only having fields for first/last name, email, and password. Once you hit submit to create a new admin user, you will be taken back to your homepage.
 
Finally, there is the BI Operations page. This page allows admins to choose from a handful of business intelligence queries to achieve greater insight into users, regions, and award types. Example queries include: “Which users have created awards?”, “Which region had the most awards by recipient?”, and “Which user has received the most awards?”, among others. Upon selecting the query and clicking submit, the results are shown on the same page in chart form. The chart is interactive and will display additional details such as award count. Below the chart are two buttons that appear after the first data query: Export to CSV and Export Chart Image. These buttons allow the admin user to retain the results of the query. The buttons download a csv file and a png of the chart, respectively, each named according to the type of query.
